Eligibility Checker 1
Did you have the right to work in the UK confirmed?
Yes → Proceed Overseas Eligibility Checker 2
No → Proceed to Overseas Candidate Statement
Eligibility Checker 2
Did you study for your school and further education qualifications in the UK?
Yes → Proceed Domestic Candidates Eligibility Checker 1
No → Proceed to Overseas Eligibility Checker 3
Overseas Candidate Statement
Candidates applying for Teacher Training with GLF Teacher Training must have the right to work in the UK confirmed BEFORE they apply for our course. We are afraid we cannot continue with your application until this is confirmed.
Please note that we do not sponsor Tier 4 or Tier 2 visas.
From 01/01/21, the new points-based immigration system will apply to trainee teachers from overseas, including EU, other EEA, and Swiss nationals.
Following the UK's departure from the EU, it has also been confirmed that most EU, other EEA and Swiss nationals will not be eligible for support from Student Finance for courses starting from September 2021.
For more information, contact DFE for overseas candidates and book a 1:1 support meeting. https://getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/?&msclkid=6b18315f11761520c86058996a92eb56&gclid=6b18315f11761520c86058996a92eb56&gclsrc=3p.ds&gad_source=7&gad_campaignid=22436474566
We wish you well as you take your next steps into teacher training.
Overseas Eligibility Checker 3
Do you have a recognised statement of comparability from ENIC/NARIC to show that you have at least a grade C or 4 in Maths and English for both Primary and Secondary teacher training routes, and a Grade C/4 in Science for those candidates who want to teach on a Primary route?
Yes → Proceed to Overseas Eligibility Checker 4
No, I do not have a compatibility statement yet. → Suggest the candidate contacts ENIC with evidence of their overseas high school qualifications to gain a statement of comparability.  (A Statement of Comparability is a certificate that shows how international qualifications compare to the UK education system.) Candidates should return to GLF Teacher Training once they have this, showing they have the equivalent of a grade C or 4 in both Maths and English for both Primary and Secondary routes and a grade C/4 in Science for those wishing to study on a Primary route. There is a cost for this service which candidates will need to fund-  Link HERE -https://www.enic.org.uk/individuals/statement-of-comparability (https://www.enic.org.uk/individuals/statement-of-comparability)
Contact us for support with this process info@glftt.org
→ Proceed to Overseas Eligibility Checker 4
No, I have a comparability statement. Still, it does not show that I have English or Maths at least a grade C or 4 equivalent for those wishing to study on both primary and secondary routes, or C/4 in Science for those wishing to study on a primary route. → Suggest the candidate applies to work through and pass an equivalency test in either English, Maths for both Secondary and Primary routes and Science (for primary candidates only), or for all three subjects where required. GLF Teacher Training will accept equivalency tests from recognised providers taken within the last 3 years but will require candidates to provide an original certificate. The DfE states that qualifications in key and functional skills at level 2 are not equivalent to GCSEs in terms of content.
We can recommend the following equivalency test providers:
Equivalency Testing (https://www.equivalencytesting.com/)
A Star Equivalency (https://astarequivalency.co.uk/)
Birmingham City University (https://www.bcu.ac.uk/education-and-social-work/initial-teacher-training/gcse-equivalency-test/gcse-equivalency-tests-non-bcu-applicants)
Suggest that if the candidate needs more support, they can send in their ENIC comparability statement to our GLF ITT admin team for them to check, and we will email back the next steps. Please email info@glftt.org (mailto:info@glftt.org)
Visit our events page to book onto one of our online weekly information events to find out more- www.glftt.org/19/events (https://www.glftt.org/19/events)
→ Proceed to Overseas Eligibility Checker 4
Overseas Eligibility Checker 4
Do you have a recognised statement of comparability from ENIC/NARIC to show that you have an undergraduate degree equivalent to a UK bachelor’s degree with honours? Your comparability statement should show that your overseas degree is comparable to a degree at a 2:2 or higher. You need a first degree (comprising at least 300 HE credits of which at least 60 must be at level 6 of the QCF)?
Yes → Proceed to Overseas Eligibility Checker 5
No, I do not have a compatibility statement. → Suggest the candidate contacts ENIC with evidence of their overseas degree-level qualifications to gain a statement of comparability. Ask them to return to GLF Teacher Training once they have this, showing that they have an undergraduate degree equivalent to a UK bachelor’s degree with honours. Your comparability statement should show that your overseas degree is comparable to a degree at a 2:2 or higher. Link here to contact ENIC-https://www.enic.org.uk/individuals/statement-of-comparability (https://www.enic.org.uk/individuals/statement-of-comparability)
Contact us for support with this process info@glftt.org
No, I have a comparability statement, but it does not show that I have an undergraduate degree equivalent to a UK bachelor’s degree with honours. Your comparability statement should show that your overseas degree is comparable to a degree at a 2:2 or higher. (Comprising at least 300 HE credits of which at least 60 must be at level 6 of the QCF- likely to be equivalent to a 2:2 or above? → Suggest the candidate sends in their comparability statement to our GLF ITT admin team for checking and for us to offer further support – email info@glftt.org (mailto:info@glftt.org)
Suggest that the candidate then consider one of the following options:
1. If your degree comes out via the equivalency testing process as an equivalent foundation degree- a Level 5 qualification equivalent, you may be able to contact local Universities to do a ‘top up’ one-year course to gain a BA Honours degree- useful summary here https://educationforyou.co.uk/articles/37 (https://educationforyou.co.uk/articles/37)
2. If your overseas degree is not equivalent to a BA Honours or a Foundation degree. In that case, candidates should explore degree-based routes into teaching through either a Teacher Degree Apprenticeship or by working as a Teaching Assistant in a school whilst completing a BA Honours Degree in Primary or Secondary Education via distance learning. More information can be found on GLF Teacher Training’s website under Degree Routes into Teaching. https://www.glftt.org/16/routes-into-teaching (https://www.glftt.org/16/routes-into-teaching)
3. Candidates may decide to study a UK-based degree from scratch. There is a range of university providers offering Education Studies degrees, or candidates may choose to study a degree in a specific Secondary Subject to help them on their way to becoming a teacher. UCAS lists all undergraduate degree courses- UCAS https://www.ucas.com (https://www.ucas.com)
Candidates may find the following University Guides helpful as a starting point.
Complete University Guide (link (https://www.thecompleteuniversityguide.co.uk/courses/search/undergraduate/education)) – compare rankings, entry requirements, and course details.
Uni Compare (link (https://universitycompare.com/courses/degrees/undergraduate/education-studies)) – browse 400+ education courses.
Educations.com – lists 229 education bachelor’s programs across UK universities.
For more support with the right option for you, contact info@glftt.org
→ Proceed to Closing Statement 1-
Closing Statement 1- Thanks for your interest in teacher training with GLF Teacher Training, and we wish you luck with your next steps. We look forward to hearing from you once you have the necessary documentation/qualifications. Once you have your degree, please come back to GLF Teacher Training, and we can support you with the next steps to gain QTS.
Contact us for support with this process info@glftt.org
Overseas Eligibility Check 5
It appears from the answers you have provided that you have the right to work in the UK, a statement of comparability from ENIC to show you have the equivalent of a Grade C/4 in English and Maths, Grade C/4 in Science (for primary candidates only), and an equivalent to a BA Honours Degree. Would you like to continue learning more about the teacher training routes available to you?
Yes → Proceed to Routes into Teaching 1
No → Proceed to Closing Statement 2
Closing Statement 2- Thanks for your interest in teacher training with GLF Teacher Training. We look forward to hearing from you once you are ready to learn more or apply for a teacher training route.
You may find coming to one of our weekly online information events useful to find out more. Link to book onto this here - https://www.glftt.org/19/events (https://www.glftt.org/19/events). You can also contact us on our enquiry form to find out more link here (https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=A0fOQITwQUy0ICoaMUBRJ6y1g0Xjm71LjaZx0sst-dFUQTZQUFhXU1ZFWUk5TVhXV05BQUNXV0c0QiQlQCN0PWcu&route=shorturl)
Domestic Candidates Eligibility Checker 1
Do you have at least a grade C or 4 in Maths and English for both Primary and Secondary teacher training routes, and a Grade C/4 in Science for those candidates who want to teach on a Primary route?
Yes → Proceed to Domestic Eligibility Checker 2
No, I do not have English or Maths at least a grade C or 4 equivalent for those wishing to study on both Primary and Secondary routes, or C/4 in Science for those wishing to study on a Primary route. → Suggest the candidate applies to work through and pass an equivalency test in either English, Maths for both Secondary and Primary routes and Science (for primary candidates only), or for all three subjects where required. GLF Teacher Training will accept equivalency tests from recognised providers taken within the last 3 years but will require candidates to provide an original certificate. The DfE states that qualifications in key and functional skills at level 2 are not equivalent to GCSEs in terms of content. These equivalency tests will need to be funded by the candidate.
We can recommend the following equivalency test providers:
Equivalency Testing (https://www.equivalencytesting.com/)
A Star Equivalency (https://astarequivalency.co.uk/)
Birmingham City University (https://www.bcu.ac.uk/education-and-social-work/initial-teacher-training/gcse-equivalency-test/gcse-equivalency-tests-non-bcu-applicants)
→ Proceed to Domestic Candidates Eligibility Checker 2
Domestic Eligibility Checker 2
Do you have an undergraduate bachelor’s degree with honours- 2:2 or above? To meet the eligibility criteria, you need a first degree (comprising at least 300 HE credits of which at least 60 must be at level 6 of the QCF)
Yes → Proceed to Routes in Teaching 1
No, I do not have an undergraduate bachelor’s degree with honours at a 2:2 or higher. (Comprising at least 300 HE credits of which at least 60 must be at level 6 of the QCF.)→ Suggest the candidate sends in their Degree certificate if they are not sure, to our GLF ITT admin team for checking and for us to offer further support – email info@glftt.org (mailto:info@glftt.org)
Suggest that the candidate then consider one of the following options:
1. If your degree is not BA Honours level, but is a foundation degree-a Level 5 qualification, you may be able to contact local Universities to do a ‘top up’ one-year course to gain a BA Honours degree- useful summary here https://educationforyou.co.uk/articles/37 (https://educationforyou.co.uk/articles/37)
2. If your degree is not a BA Honours or a Foundation degree. In this case, candidates should explore degree-based routes into teaching through either a Teacher Degree Apprenticeship or by working as a Teaching Assistant in a school whilst completing a BA Honours Degree in Primary or Secondary Education via distance learning. More information can be found on GLF Teacher Training’s website under Degree Routes into Teaching. https://www.glftt.org/16/routes-into-teaching (https://www.glftt.org/16/routes-into-teaching)
3. Candidates may decide to study a UK-based degree from scratch. There is a range of university providers offering Education Studies degrees, or candidates may choose to study a degree in a specific Secondary Subject to help them on their way to becoming a teacher. UCAS lists all undergraduate degree courses- UCAS https://www.ucas.com (https://www.ucas.com)
Candidates may find the following University Guides useful as a starting point.
Complete University Guide (link (https://www.thecompleteuniversityguide.co.uk/courses/search/undergraduate/education)) – compare rankings, entry requirements, and course details.
Uni Compare (link (https://universitycompare.com/courses/degrees/undergraduate/education-studies)) – browse 400+ education courses.
Educations.com – lists 229 education bachelor’s programs across UK universities.
→ Proceed to Closing Statement 3-
Closing Statement 3- Thanks for your interest in teacher training with GLF Teacher Training, and we wish you luck with your next steps. We look forward to hearing from you once you have the necessary documentation/qualifications. Once you have your degree, please come back to GLF Teacher Training, and we would be happy to support you to gain QTS at this point.
Contact us for support with this process info@glftt.org
2.  Routes into Teaching 1
Do you want to train while earning a salary?
Yes → GLF Teacher Training has three employment-based routes into teaching. All these routes have specific eligibility requirements regarding school experience and require a school willing to support/employ you on these routes. →Proceed to Employment-Based Routes 1
No → GLF Teacher Training offers a Fee-Funded route into teaching that does not require a school employment-based contract and allows trainees to take on teaching classes in manageable milestones. → Proceed to Fee-Paying Route
2. Employment-Based Routes 1
Do you have classroom experience?
Yes → Employment-based routes may suit you. Proceed to Employment-Based Routes 2
No → It is unlikely that schools will pay a salary and potentially training fees for candidates with no school experience. You would be more suited to our Fee-Paying route. Proceed to Fee-Paying Route
Employment-Based Routes 2
We have outlined the details and eligibility for each of GLF’s employment-based routes below.
Salaried Route
Salaried routes are for qualifying candidates with at least a year of school experience. This means candidates will not have to pay tuition fees and will receive a salary while training to become qualified teachers. Candidates will become an unqualified teacher employed by a school for the duration of the training programme.  This route offers a QTS paid by the schools and gives a PGCE option at an additional cost to the candidate. The University of Brighton accredits the PGCE, with learning that is integral to the course and supported by the candidate's course tutor. Candidates will be expected to have some of their own classes independently from day one, with some time out of school for training. These courses are in high demand and very competitive, so it’s essential to apply as soon as possible if you’re eligible. Candidates will need a school willing to employ them, pay their salary and pay their training fees to the training provider. The length of this course is approximately 10 months.
Postgraduate Teacher Apprenticeship Route
Postgraduate Teacher Apprenticeships in Primary and a range of Secondary Subjects— (for qualifying candidates). This route pays candidates' training fees via the organisation's apprenticeship training levy pot, and the candidate receives a salary while training. Candidates will be Apprentice employees in a school for the duration of their apprenticeship. This route offers a QTS paid by the Trust and gives a PGCE option at an additional cost to the candidate. The University of Brighton accredits the PGCE, with learning that is integral to the course and supported by a course tutor. Candidates may be expected to have some of their own classes independently from day one, with 20% of their time out of school for training. Candidates will need a school willing to employ them, pay their salary, and have GLF, as a Trust, pay their training fees.  To access the DFE training levy, candidates must have a British Passport and have been in the country for three years. The length of this course is approximately 10 months.
Assessment Only Route
This route is for qualifying candidates with significant school experience. Candidates can only take the assessment route if they already meet the standards for qualified teacher status (QTS), and they do not need any further training or time to get the required evidence to pass QTS. Candidates must be ready to meet the Teachers’ Standards. Candidates must currently be teaching in a school, have worked in two or more school settings and across two age phases to meet the ITT entry criteria.
Candidates must show they can meet the Teachers’ Standards across two age phases, encompassing a range of assessments and teaching and learning approaches. Candidates’ experience in assessment, teaching, and planning must take into account both physical and developmental ages.
Candidates must demonstrate they have sufficient and appropriate experience in their chosen age phases and should undertake a second school experience for at least 6 weeks in a mainstream setting to support their evidence for the Teachers’ Standards.
Candidates should teach a minimum of 50% and a maximum of 80% of an experienced teacher’s timetable for the duration of the assessment period.
Applicants must have the opportunity to work with adults other than teachers and pupils across the ability range within the school, and in the school's pastoral setting. Secondary applicants’ timetables are expected to have 80% of their teaching commitment to their specialist subject.
Candidates will undergo a series of assessments and provide a portfolio, and this programme takes up to 12 weeks. All candidates taking the assessment-only route will require an initial meeting to ensure they qualify and will need the employing school's support.
The cost of the Assessment Only Assessment programme will need to be paid by the candidate or employing school.
→ Proceed to Subject and Phase 1
2.  Fee-paying Routes into Teaching
Fee-paying routes- Some teacher training courses are fee-funded. This means Candidates must pay tuition fees and will not earn a salary while they train. There are ways to fund training to support candidates, such as tuition fees and maintenance loans. Find out more about student and maintenance loans here. (https://getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/landing/how-to-fund-your-teacher-training?&msclkid=e3a8cce7259c13776f8ca5fbe5a9766f&gclid=e3a8cce7259c13776f8ca5fbe5a9766f&gclsrc=3p.ds&gad_source=7&gad_campaignid=22436474563) Secondary candidates may also be eligible for a Department for Education tax-free bursary or scholarship of between £5,000 and £31,000, depending on the subject. Details of subject bursaries and scholarships can be foundhere (https://getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/landing/how-to-fund-your-teacher-training?&msclkid=e3a8cce7259c13776f8ca5fbe5a9766f&gclid=e3a8cce7259c13776f8ca5fbe5a9766f&gclsrc=3p.ds&gad_source=7&gad_campaignid=22436474563). This will help to support the candidate financially while they train. Candidates will need to pay the training fees to their training provider out of this.
This route comes with a QTS and PGCE option. The University of Brighton accredits the PGCE, with learning that is integral to your course and supported by your course tutors. The length of this course is approximately 10 months.
Trainees on this route will be supernumerary and will support class teachers, taking on more responsibility for class teaching when the candidate is ready and in line with the expected teaching milestones per term.
→ Proceed to Subject and Phase 1
Subject & Phase 1
Do you want to teach Primary or Secondary?
Primary → Proceed to Subject and Phase 2
Secondary → Proceed to Subject and Phase 3
3. Subject & Phase 2
Do you want to teach Primary at ages 3-7 or 7-11
Primary ages 3-7 → Proceed to Flexibility
Primary ages 7-11→ Proceed to Flexibility
3. Subject & Phase 3
Do you want to teach in Secondary Shortage Subjects or other Secondary subjects? Shortage Subjects are those with a bursary attached. For 26-27, this is Biology, Chemistry, Computing, Design and Technology, Geography, Languages, Maths and Physics. Bursary amounts can be found here (https://getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/landing/how-to-fund-your-teacher-training?&msclkid=e3a8cce7259c13776f8ca5fbe5a9766f&gclid=e3a8cce7259c13776f8ca5fbe5a9766f&gclsrc=3p.ds&gad_source=7&gad_campaignid=22436474563). For fee-funded routes, the bursary is paid directly to the candidate; for employment-based routes, it is paid to the employing school to offset salary costs. Non-Shortage Secondary Subjects are any other subjects, and these do not come with any bursary. Candidates can still apply for a Student and Maintenance loan to cover the training costs, though.
Secondary Shortage Subjects → Proceed to Flexibility
Secondary Non-Shortage Subjects→ Proceed to Flexibility
4. Flexibility
Do you wish to train flexibly on GLF’s flexible training route?
Yes → Proceed to Flexible Training Route
No → Proceed to Training Locations
4. Flexible Training Route
Flexible training routes- GLF Teacher Training offer this route in Secondary shortage subjects, in a range of subjects. We also offer this for some eligible candidates in Primary and non-shortage Secondary subjects. This is a flexible way for postgraduate candidates to train to teach. This training route allows candidates to train over five terms, supporting them in managing work/life balance, continuing other work/studies, or building towards a part-time teaching career. This route is available only as a QTS option. → Proceed to Training Locations
5. Training Locations
We offer placement schools across the southeast from Surrey, Croydon, Oxfordshire, Reading, West Sussex, Wokingham and Hampshire to meet candidates' needs. You will spend 80% of your time at your placement school and 20% training at one of our training venues, learning from our experts.
Would you prefer our Oxford/Reading training venue or our Bansted in Surrey venue?
Oxford/Reading → Go to next steps 1
Banstead, Surrey→ Go to next steps 1
Next Steps 1
We offer the chance for candidates to visit one of our GLF Teacher Training Schools for a School Experience visit. This can help them decide on the subject/phase that is right for them and help them meet the teachers and children they would be working with. Would you like us to set this up for you?
I would like to attend a School Experience Visit- → Go to Next Steps 2
I do not want to attend a School Experience Visit at this stage, but would like to be sent more information → Go to next Steps 3
Next Steps 2
Please complete our enquiry form, noting in question 14 where you would like school experience. Alternatively, you can book onto GLF Teacher Training’s School Experience via our contact us email info@glftt.org (mailto:info@glftt.org) and we can set this up for you.
Next Steps 3
We offer a range of engagement events to promote what GLF Teacher Training has to offer, including a weekly online Coffee and Chat and regional face-to-face recruitment events in our schools. Would you like to attend?
I would like to attend an event - → Go to GLF Teacher Training events
I do not want to attend an event, but I would like to be sent more information → Go to GLF Teacher Training Contact Us at info@glftt.org
GLF Teacher Training Events
Please visit our events page and sign up for one of our events linkhere (https://www.glftt.org/19/events) → Go to Closing statement 4
Contact GLF Teacher Training
Contact us at GLF Teacher Training for us to send you more information. Please email us at info@glftt.org (mailto:info@glftt.org)   → Go to closing statement 4
Closing Statement 4- Thanks for your interest in teacher training with GLF Teacher Training. GLF Schools, as a Trust, is passionate about training the next generation of teachers for our schools. Please visit GLF’s Teacher Training Website to find out more https://www.glftt.org (https://www.glftt.org) or fill in our enquiry form and we will be in touch link here (https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=A0fOQITwQUy0ICoaMUBRJ6y1g0Xjm71LjaZx0sst-dFUQTZQUFhXU1ZFWUk5TVhXV05BQUNXV0c0QiQlQCN0PWcu&route=shorturl)
GLF Teacher Training has a lot to offer:
Whether you are considering joining as a graduate straight from university, moving into teaching from a school support role, or changing careers, there is a training route at GLF for you.
Teaching is a rewarding career like no other. Although it can be challenging at times, you always know that each day you go to work, you make a difference.
No two days are the same; you are guaranteed to work as part of a team with whom you can laugh and learn.
You can make a difference to the lives of young people as you see them learn, grow, and flourish.
If you are passionate about your subject or phase of education, put this to work and inspire the next generation.
Teaching is a career with financial support to train, a competitive starting salary, the ability to progress financial as you become a more experienced teacher or move into leadership roles, and a generous pension.
There are flexible training routes and part -time teaching options available. This and term-time contracts support candidates in managing work and family life.
Training to teach within one of GLF 43 Trust Schools offers excellent career progression opportunities within the same Trust. GLF offers a range of career pathways from pastoral support, teaching and learning to leadership.
Your continued professional development matters to us. Training to teach with GLF SCITT is like joining our family of partner schools. We will support you throughout your teacher training, your first teaching position as an early career teacher, and beyond. Learn with and from the experts.
We look forward to hearing from you.
Every Teacher Shapes a Life.
